Hello Food Tubers, Barry Taylor here and SORTED
Tubers, SORTED Fooders.
SORTED Fooders.
Perfect, right.
We are going to do a leek and butter bean
cassoulet in a really simple sauce, garlic,
thyme, plus Cumberland ring and we're going
to finish it with a garlic crumb as well.
Lots going on, really cost effective.
So to start with leek, take off the green
parts and the root parts and then if you could
just slice that up into small pieces this
bit think saving food.
That is perfect for stock, we';re not going
to throw it away.
This is all about saving money and at the
end of the day I've paid for that so I'm going
to save it.
Eat it.
I'm not going to eat that, it will be for
stock.
So I'm going to now get the garlic, four cloves
and crush those just to get rid of the peel
We're going to need two for our cassoulet
and two for our garlic crumb.
Ting glug of oil into the pan.
Leek is going to become the base to our dish
as well as the kind of flavour and the sweetness.
Whereas you'd normally put an onion to start
it off, then you put something else in like
a vegetable.
This si doing both.
You've got the sweetness of the leek but also
those green bits you're doing there nicely
they become part of the vegetable as well.
Because leek as a vegetable is so underrated.
So they can go into the pan and start to sweat
that off, two cloves of garlic if you can
finely slice those.
Season up our leeks at this stage.
The key to simple ingredients is to season
them well and they can taste amazing.
So cheap ingredients going a long way with
smart flavours.
Garlic goes in there and for amazing textures
for this dish, we're going to blend up some
bread.
Now this is two slices of super stale bread.
You wouldn't want to use it for much, other
than this great part of the dish which adds
texture, crunch.
One glove of garlic , thyme straight off the
window sill or garden.
If you've got it or not, if not you could
use dried, which is slightly cheaper.
Could you grow all this yourself for this
dish?
Err totally the herbs, I think a herb garden
is a very sensible thing to have.
Sausages?
You can't grow sausages no.
A little bit of oil and then blend the whole
thing up.
Now quickly grab our tray, we've essentially
made our garlicy, herby breadcrumbs.
Ahhh nice.
So they can go into our oven about 180 degrees
celsius for a few moments, just to crisp up.
Leeks just starting to soften off.
And next we have our sausage, the protein
in our dish.
The most expensive part of the dish, but still
relatively cheap.
Just so many cuts of meats.
Because we're doing this cheap are these cheap
sausages?
No because you're doing cheap it doesn't mean
you have to cut back on the quality of the
sausage.
These are Cumberland sausage so already seasoned,
lots of black pepper, white pepper as well
and herbs.
Now, top tip a cumberland sausage is often
served in a ring, so quite expensive to buy.
So chap chipolates, all strung together untwist
them and just kind of push the meat down and
you end up with one long sausage.
No way!
That's quite cool, I buy these sausages literally
every single week and I'm now going to be
doing this and people are going to think I'm
posh.
Posh?
Maybe not.
Okay now we've got the sausage we can now
turn that into the cumberland ring.
You've got to shop smart and this is what
it's all about.
Now we've got a few skewers to hold it in
place.
So one goes through, start at the end.
It's a sausage lolly pop.
And from the other direction as well, so that's
our sausage.
We can then put that onto a grill tray it
needs to go under a medium heated grill for
about 3 minutes on either side.
Really easy to turn over because of the skewers.
Okay.
So under the grill.
Keep the grill open otherwise it won't grill.
Okay, another cheap ingredient.
Yup.
Beans.
This is the bulk, the carbs of our dish.
Costs next to nothing.
So adding this all together.
Are you deliberately being an idiot?
A little bit.
The whole dish is less than two pounds.
SO less than a takeaway.
That really hurt.
Well you listened to what I said and you just
tried to undermine me.
I didn't!
Honestly Ben I'm a little bit blown away by
what you've just done.
That has changed my life.
Quickly before these burn I'm going to add
in our beans.
SO leek, garlic, thyme and a tin of butterbeans.
Is there a sauce with this?
The sauce is even easier still.
Creme fraice, goes in there.
And.
And?
make sure we get all the last bit out/ We
waste nothing here.
Get your finger right in there, that's lovely.
Quality.
No don't you dare.
And then horseradish sauce.
A jar is often just sat in the fridge, the
door of teh frigde.
Wipe your finger it's relaly putting me off.
Once I've done this.
Going in there.
That's everything we need into the cassoulet.
We need to let that heat up and bubble for
a couple fo minutes.
The sausage need to grill for two three minutes
either side.
Our breadcrumbs four to five minutes just
to crisp up and then the whole thing come
together into a really smart, cheap simple
dish that's perfect for mid week meals.
There we go.
I know you're impressed with what we did with
the sausage at the start.
But top tip which i forgot to mention.
Give it a little prick, otherwise because
it's curled up quite tight, the ring will
kind of tear at the edges if you don't give
it a prick.
So here we go.
We've got our beans going in there, we're
going to put both portions in here and then
our garlic crumb for texture as well.
Perfect.
There we have it, our leek and butterbean
cassoulet with cumberland sausage and garlic
crumb.
Sorted! let me take the skewers off now, make
it easier.
Now that's what frugal food should be.
The best thing about that I've got those ingredients
in my fridge, yeah basic ingredients that
you can turn into something very, very tasty.
I'm making this tonight.
Lunch and dinner.
That is quite cool.
If you want the details of this recipe.
Head to sortedfood.com otherwise subscribe
to Food Tube for loads more foody talent and
of course sorted food.